# Data-Driven-Modelling-of-Lithium-ion-batteries
The rechargeable lithium-ion battery has been extensively used in mobile communication and portable instruments due to its many advantages, such as high volumetric and gravimetric energy density and low self discharge rate. Early detection of inadequate performance facilitates the timely maintenance of battery systems. This reduces operational costs and prevents accidents and malfunctions. Prognostic and health management (PHM) can ensure that a lithium-ion battery is working safely and reliably. The main approach of the PHM evaluation of the battery is to determine the state of health (SoH) and state of charge (SOC) of the battery. This paper presenThe rechargeable lithium-ion battery has been extensively used in mobile communication and portable instruments due to its many advantages, such as high volumetric and gravimetric energy density and low self discharge rate. Early detection of inadequate performance facilitates the timely maintenance of battery systems. This reduces operational costs and prevents accidents and malfunctions. Prognostic and health management (PHM) can ensure that a lithium-ion battery is working safely and reliably. The main approach of the PHM evaluation of the battery is to determine the state of health (SoH) and state of charge (SOC) of the battery. This paper presents the preliminary development of the data-driven prognostic, using an LSTM (RNN) approach to predict the SoH and SoC of the lithium-ion battery. The effectiveness of the proposed approach was assessed in a case study using a battery dataset from NASA's Ames Prognostics Center of Excellence (PCoE) database. The proposed LSTM algorithm was compared against other machine learning based on the RMSE value. The experimental results reveal that the performance of the LSTM algorithm could either match or outweigh other machine learning algorithms.ts the preliminary development of the data-driven prognostic, using an LSTM (RNN) approach to predict the SoH and SoC of the lithium-ion battery. The effectiveness of the proposed approach was assessed in a case study using a battery dataset from NASA's Ames Prognostics Center of Excellence (PCoE) database. The proposed LSTM algorithm was compared against other machine learning based on the RMSE value. The experimental results reveal that the performance of the LSTM algorithm could either match or outweigh other machine learning algorithms.
